K8s api server OIDC (#937)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2021-11-08-k8s-api-server-oidc.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "How to Secure Your Kubernetes Cluster with OpenID Connect and RBAC"
author: deepu-sasidharan
by: advocate
communities: [kubernetes, devops, security]
description: "Learn how to set up Okta as an OpenID Connect provider using Terraform for access to Kubernetes API server."
tags: [kubernetes, devops, oidc, okta, terraform]
tweets:
  - "Use #OIDC to access #Kubernetes API server securely. Set it up using Terraform."
  - "Access #Kubernetes API server using your favorite #OIDC provider!"
type: conversion

> image: blog/k8s-api-server-oidc/kube-login-oidc.jpg

Reviewer: You can add a `github: /path/to/repo` line in the front matter here and it'll change the GitHub icon at the top to link to your repo instead of your username. I find it useful so I don't have to scroll to the bottom for the repo.

Author: You mean to put the terraform code repo here

While this exercise shows how to do it with Okta, the process would be very similar for other OIDC providers as well. Check out the [Okta Terraform provider docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs) to see what else can be automated via Terraform. You can also automate the Kubernetes parts via terraform using the [Kubernetes Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/kubernetes/latest/docs).

If you want to learn more about Kubernetes, OIDC, or using OIDC with Kubernetes, check out these additional resources.

- [OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect Overview](https://developer.okta.com/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/)
- [Secure Access to AWS EKS Clusters for Admins](/blog/2021/10/08/secure-access-to-aws-eks)
- [Build a Microservice Architecture with Spring Boot and Kubernetes](/blog/2019/04/01/spring-boot-microservices-with-kubernetes)
- [Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster)
- [Using Okta Advanced Server Access & Terraform to Automate Identity & Infrastructure as Code](/blog/2020/04/24/okta-terraform-automate-identity-and-infrastructure)

> You can find the code for this tutorial on GitHub at <https://github.com/oktadev/okta-k8s-oidc-terraform-example>.

Reviewer: I just re-examined this repo after polishing up a contractor one. I noticed it has an [MIT license](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-k8s-oidc-terraform-example/blob/main/LICENSE) instead of Apache. We use Apache 2.0 on all our examples and add Okta, Inc. as the copyright holder.

Related: please fill out the README so if users stumble upon your repo first, they can get it up and running w/o reading the post. Or, just add some text that encourages them to read the post. Here's the example repo I updated this morning:

https://github.com/oktadev/okta-java-records-example

Author: Hey thank you I'll fix them. These are the kind of newbie mistakes I was afraid of

Author: I updated these. Added instruction on the Readme to use the repo standalone and pointed reader toward blog for further setup

---
layout: blog_post
title: "How to Secure Your Kubernetes Cluster with OpenID Connect and RBAC"
author: deepu-sasidharan
by: advocate
communities: [kubernetes, devops, security]
description: "Learn how to set up Okta as an OpenID Connect provider using Terraform for access to Kubernetes API server."
tags: [kubernetes, devops, oidc, okta, terraform]
tweets:
  - "Use #OIDC to access #Kubernetes API server securely. Set it up using Terraform."
  - "Access #Kubernetes API server using your favorite #OIDC provider!"
type: conversion
image: blog/k8s-api-server-oidc/kube-login-oidc.jpg
github: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-k8s-oidc-terraform-example
---

> A Kubernetes (k8s) cluster comprises worker machines called nodes and a control plane consisting of the API server, scheduler, etcd, controller manager, and in the case of a PaaS the cloud controller manager. The containers deployed to the cluster run in pods on the worker nodes. At the same time, the control plane takes care of scheduling, responding to requests, and managing the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Kubernetes (k8s) cluster comprises worker machines called nodes and a control plane consisting of the API server, scheduler, etcd, controller manager, and in the case of a PaaS (platform as a service), the cloud controller manager. The containers deployed to the cluster run in pods on the worker nodes. At the same time, the control plane takes care of scheduling, responding to requests, and managing the cluster.
```
comma, acronym reference

{% img blog/k8s-api-server-oidc/kube-architecture.jpg alt:"K8s architecture" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> When you communicate with a Kubernetes cluster, using kubectl or a client library or a tool like [KDash](https://kdash.cli.rs/), you are primarily interacting with the [Kubernetes API server](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver/). The API server is responsible for managing the cluster and is responsible for handling requests from a client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you communicate with a Kubernetes cluster, using kubectl, or a client library, or a tool like [KDash](https://kdash.cli.rs/), you are primarily interacting with the [Kubernetes API server](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver/). The API server is responsible for managing the cluster and is responsible for handling requests from a client.
```

{% include toc.md %}

# Why secure the API server?

The API server has multiple layers of security. By default, all communication with the API server uses TLS. Authentication is done using service account tokens, bearer tokens, basic authentication, a proxy, or client certificates, depending on the platform. In the case of PaaS like Amazon EKS, AKS, and GKE, it can also be done using custom authentication mechanisms. Once a request is authenticated, the API server can use one of several authorization mechanisms, like Attribute-based access control (ABAC) or Role-based access control (RBAC), to control access to resources. And finally, there are also admission control modules that can be configured to control resource modifications.

> Since the API server is the only part of the Kubernetes cluster that a client can access, it is essential to secure the API server. Unauthorized access to the API server can lead to hijacking of the entire cluster, which also lets an attacker access all secrets and data accessible to the services running on it. Hence, configuring users and roles properly is a must to secure the cluster, especially i9n organizations where more than one user can access the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the API server is the only part of the Kubernetes cluster that a client can access, it is essential to secure the API server. Unauthorized access to the API server can lead to hijacking of the entire cluster, which also lets an attacker access all secrets and data accessible to the services running on it. Hence, configuring users and roles properly is a must to secure the cluster, especially in organizations where more than one user can access the cluster.
```
typo

# Why OpenID Connect?

> > [OpenID Connect](https://developer.okta.com/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/) is an authentication standard built on top of OAuth 2.0. It adds an additional token called an ID token. OpenID Connect also standardizes areas that OAuth 2.0 leaves up to choices, such as scopes, endpoint discovery, and dynamic registration of clients.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> [OpenID Connect](https://developer.okta.com/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/) is an authentication standard built on top of OAuth 2.0. It adds an additional token called an ID token. OpenID Connect also standardizes areas that OAuth 2.0 leaves up to choices, such as scopes, endpoint discovery, and dynamic registration of clients.
```
```suggestion
> [OpenID Connect](https://developer.okta.com/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/) is an authentication standard built on top of OAuth 2.0. It adds an additional token called an ID token. OpenID Connect also standardizes areas that OAuth 2.0 leaves open to choice, such as scopes, endpoint discovery, and dynamic registration of clients.
```
clarification

> While the default authentication mechanism of the Kubernetes API server might be enough for simple use cases, where only a handful of people manages the cluster, it does not scale for bigger organizations. It's definitely not the most secure way as well. This is because Kubernetes does not handle user management and expects this to be done outside. This is where OpenID Connect (OIDC) comes in. OIDC can manage users and groups, which works very well with the Kubernetes RBAC to provide very granular control of who can access what inside a cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the default authentication mechanism of the Kubernetes API server might be enough for simple use cases, where only a handful of people manage the cluster, it does not scale for bigger organizations. Also, the default is definitely not the most secure way, because Kubernetes does not handle user management and expects it to be done outside. This is where OpenID Connect (OIDC) comes in. OIDC can manage users and groups, which works very well with the Kubernetes RBAC to provide very granular control of who can access what inside a cluster.
```
clarity and readability .

{% img blog/k8s-api-server-oidc/kube-login-oidc.jpg alt:"K8s OIDC flow" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> Having an OIDC integration also means you can use the same OIDC provider used to do SSO in your existing infrastructure to access your Kubernetes cluster as well, like Okta or Keycloak, for example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

With an OIDC integration, you can use the same OIDC provider to access your Kubernetes cluster that your existing infrastructure already uses to do SSO, like Okta or Keycloak, for example.

```
simplifying and reducing passive voice for readability.

Author: I changed it a bit as it read weird

Author: updated to 
> With an OIDC integration, you can use the same OIDC provider used for SSO in your existing infrastructure to access your Kubernetes cluster, like Okta or Keycloak.

# Use Okta as an OIDC provider to secure the API server

> > Okta, Inc. is an identity and access management company providing cloud software that helps companies manage and secure user authentication into applications and for developers to build identity controls into applications, websites, web services, and devices. Okta is a certified OpenID Connect provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Okta provides cloud software that helps companies manage and secure user authentication into applications and enables developers to build identity controls into applications, websites, web services, and devices. Okta is a certified OpenID Connect provider.
```
so it's not verbatim from the wikipedia company description, while keeping the focus on the technology.

> Let us see how we can secure the Kubernetes API server using Okta as an OIDC provider and use RBAC to control access from the Okta Admin Console. If you are using Amazon EKS, then check [this](/blog/2021/10/08/secure-access-to-aws-eks) tutorial for using Okta OIDC with EKS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let us see how we can secure the Kubernetes API server using Okta as an OIDC provider and use RBAC to control access from the Okta Admin Console. If you are using Amazon EKS, check out this [tutorial for using Okta OIDC with EKS](/blog/2021/10/08/secure-access-to-aws-eks).
```
Okta infodev style guide, link placement on description of the link. avoid using "here" or "this" or "click this"

## What you'll need to get started

> Before you start trying this out, make sure you have access to the following.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you try this out, make sure you have access to the following.
```
simplify

> - An Okta account. You can sign up for a free account [here](https://developer.okta.com/signup/). If you like, you can use another OIDC provider or [Dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex), and the steps should be similar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An Okta account. You can sign up for a [free Okta account](https://developer.okta.com/signup/). Or, you can use another OIDC provider or [Dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex), and the steps should be similar.
```
link placement

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) installed on your machine.
- [Terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli) installed on your machine. This is not required if you do the Okta configuration via the [Okta Admin Console](https://login.okta.com/) GUI.

## Set up an Okta OIDC application and authorization server

You can achieve OIDC login for the cluster by creating a simple OIDC application with Okta either using the Okta CLI or the Admin Console. But with an OIDC application alone, you would have to use the client secret to authenticate from kubectl or any other client library. Authenticating with the client secret does not scale and is not better than default k8s authentication mechanisms, as you won't have granular controls over users and roles. For a more helpful setup, we need an OIDC application and an authorization server with customized claims and policies for Kubernetes. This way, we can use Okta to manage users and permissions as well.

> There are multiple ways to set up an OIDC application and authorization server in Okta. If you prefer to do this via a GUI, then follow the **Configure Your Okta Org section** from [this article](/blog/2021/10/08/secure-access-to-aws-eks#configure-your-okta-org) to do it via the Okta Admin Console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are multiple ways to set up an OIDC application and authorization server in Okta. If you prefer to do this via a GUI, then follow the steps in the [**Configure Your Okta Org ** section] (/blog/2021/10/08/secure-access-to-aws-eks#configure-your-okta-org) of the article mentioned earlier, to do it via the Okta Admin Console.
```
link placement

  name        = "k8s-admins"
  description = "Users who can access k8s cluster as admins"
}

resource "okta_group" "k8s_restricted_users" {
  name        = "k8s-restricted-users"
  description = "Users who can only view pods and services in default namespace"
}
```

### Assign users to the groups

The below snippet looks up existing users and adds them to the groups. You can add any number of users at this stage, or you can skip adding users and do it via the Okta Admin Console later. For this exercise, I'm fetching existing users. You could also create new users using the `okta_user` resource.

```hcl
# Assign users to the groups
data "okta_user" "admin" {
  search {
    name  = "profile.email"
    value = "<your_admin_user_email>"
  }
}

resource "okta_group_memberships" "admin_user" {
  group_id = okta_group.k8s_admin.id
  users = [
    data.okta_user.admin.id
  ]
}

data "okta_user" "restricted_user" {
  search {
    name  = "profile.email"
    value = "<another_user_email>"
  }
}

resource "okta_group_memberships" "restricted_user" {
  group_id = okta_group.k8s_restricted_users.id
  users = [
    data.okta_user.restricted_user.id
  ]
}
```

### Create an OIDC application

> Now that our groups are in place let's create an OIDC application. We will set the application type to `native` and use PKCE as client authentication, which is much more secure than using a client secret. We will also set the redirect URIs to `localhost:8000` so that we can work with kubectl locally. We should also assign the groups we created earlier to this application here. Finally, we can capture the client ID of the created app using an output variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that our groups are in place, let's create an OIDC application. We will set the application type to `native` and use PKCE as client authentication, which is much more secure than using a client secret. We will also set the redirect URIs to `localhost:8000` so that we can work with kubectl locally. We should also assign the groups we created earlier to this application here. Finally, we can capture the client ID of the created app using an output variable.
```
comma for readability

okta_auth_server_claim.auth_claim: Creating...
okta_group_memberships.admin_user: Creation complete after 1s [id=00g2b0rmupxo1C1HW5d7]
okta_group_memberships.restricted_user: Creation complete after 1s [id=00g2b0q4zejpq6hbi5d7]
okta_app_oauth.k8s_oidc: Creation complete after 1s [id=0oa2b0qc0x38Xjxbk5d7]
okta_app_group_assignments.k8s_oidc_group: Creating...
okta_auth_server_policy.auth_policy: Creating...
okta_auth_server_claim.auth_claim: Creation complete after 0s [id=ocl2b0rc6ejmIO4KR5d7]
okta_app_group_assignments.k8s_oidc_group: Creation complete after 1s [id=0oa2b0qc0x38Xjxbk5d7]
okta_auth_server_policy.auth_policy: Creation complete after 1s [id=00p2b0qjjxsSz0Mya5d7]
okta_auth_server_policy_rule.auth_policy_rule: Creating...
okta_auth_server_policy_rule.auth_policy_rule: Creation complete after 1s [id=0pr2b0rgnfxjyu6cy5d7]

Apply complete! Resources: 10 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

k8s_oidc_client_id = "0oa2b0qc0x38Xjxbk5d7"
k8s_oidc_issuer_url = "https://dev-xxxxxx.okta.com/oauth2/aus2b0ql0ihgilIh95d7"
```

You can run `terraform destroy` to revert the changes if required.

> > **TIP**: You can use the `terraform import <resource_name.id>` command to import data and configuration from your Okta instance. Refer [these docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **TIP**: You can use the `terraform import <resource_name.id>` command to import data and configuration from your Okta instance. Refer to [these Terraform docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs) for more information.
```
descriptive hyperlink

**NOTE**: If you encounter an issue where OIDC groups/users collide with Kubernetes groups/users, you can set `oidc-groups-prefix` and `oidc-username-prefix` flags as well.

Flags can be set when creating the cluster or by patching the API server via SSH, as described below.

### Create a cluster with OIDC enabled

Here is how you can create a new k8s cluster with OIDC enabled using different tools. Execute the command for the tool you're using. Make sure to replace `<k8s_oidc_issuer_url>` and `<k8s_oidc_client_id>` with values from the output of the Terraform step. For any other tools, refer to their documentation on how to update API server flags.

#### kubeadmn

If you are using [kubeadmn](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/), add the following flags to the cluster configuration and pass them to `kubeadm init` command.

```yml
apiVersion: kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta3
kind: ClusterConfiguration
apiServer:
  extraArgs:
    oidc-issuer-url: <k8s_oidc_issuer_url>
    oidc-client-id: <k8s_oidc_client_id>
    oidc-username-claim: email
    oidc-groups-claim: groups
```

#### kOps

> For [kOps](https://kops.sigs.k8s.io/), create a cluster with the required config. For example, below will create a cluster in AWS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For [kOps](https://kops.sigs.k8s.io/), create a cluster with the required config. For example, the code below will create a cluster in AWS.
```
clarity

## 2. Verify authentication

You got a token with the following claims:

{
  "sub": "00u28lpcoheT48W5A5d7",
  "ver": 1,
  "iss": "<k8s_oidc_issuer_url>",
  "aud": "<k8s_oidc_client_id>",
  "iat": 1634657188,
  "exp": 1634660788,
  "jti": "ID.AmO7M7Z4xh_rSN4IHVuQEfJ4QuoADOWHSrVHuNyn9so",
  "amr": [
    "pwd"
  ],
  "idp": "0oa28lrldhsBglcC35d7",
  "nonce": "2Rsv7E84vo_K14J6qm9IgKjNsCUxb4Hc16qgzx9CKlk",
  "auth_time": 1634649927,
  "at_hash": "veXQkvqTjCl70OkZnKZVyA",
  "groups": [
    "k8s-admins"
  ]
}

```

Now let us update kubectl configuration to add an OIDC user:

```bash
kubectl config set-credentials oidc-user \
--exec-api-version=client.authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1 \
--exec-command=kubectl \
--exec-arg=oidc-login \
--exec-arg=get-token \
--exec-arg=--oidc-issuer-url=<k8s_oidc_issuer_url> \
--exec-arg=--oidc-client-id=<k8s_oidc_client_id> \
--exec-arg=--oidc-extra-scope="email offline_access profile openid"
```

Now we can use this user to authenticate to the cluster via kubectl.

```bash
kubectl get pods --user=oidc-user -n default
```

This should open a browser window to authenticate you. You can use your Okta account credentials to log in.

> You can play around with different users in different groups to test out the RBAC configuration we did. Users who are not in the `k8s-admins` group in Okta should not be able to access any resource. Users who are only in the `restricted-users` group should only be able to see pods and services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Test out this RBAC configuration by playing around with different users in different groups. Users who are not in the `k8s-admins` group in Okta should not be able to access any resource. Users who are only in the `restricted-users` group should only be able to see pods and services.
```
sentence variation to avoid repetitive sentence structure...

You can use the below command to set this user as default for your current kubectl context.

```
kubectl config set-context --current --user=oidc-user
```

# Learn more about using OIDC with Kubernetes

> Using OIDC is a great way to secure your Kubernetes clusters, especially in bigger teams. It is more secure than any of the default Kubernetes authentication mechanisms. On top of that, it will let you manage users and their roles and permissions in your cluster and even add multi-factor authentication for your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using OIDC is a great way to secure your Kubernetes clusters, especially in bigger teams. It is more secure than any of the default Kubernetes authentication mechanisms. On top of that, it will let you manage users and their roles and permissions in your cluster, and even add multi-factor authentication for your cluster.
```
comma

> While this exercise shows how to do it with Okta, the process would be very similar for other OIDC providers as well. Check out the [Okta Terraform provider docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs) to see what else can be automated via Terraform. You can also automate the Kubernetes parts via terraform using the [Kubernetes Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/kubernetes/latest/docs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While this exercise shows you an Okta implementation, the process would be very similar for other OIDC providers. Check out the [Okta Terraform provider docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs) to see what else can be automated via Terraform. You can also automate the Kubernetes parts via terraform using the [Kubernetes Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/kubernetes/latest/docs).
```
clarifies  "it" in "do it with Okta" since the context is missing in this paragraph

If you want to learn more about Kubernetes, OIDC, or using OIDC with Kubernetes, check out these additional resources.

- [OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect Overview](https://developer.okta.com/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/)
- [Secure Access to AWS EKS Clusters for Admins](/blog/2021/10/08/secure-access-to-aws-eks)
- [Build a Microservice Architecture with Spring Boot and Kubernetes](/blog/2019/04/01/spring-boot-microservices-with-kubernetes)
- [Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster)
- [Using Okta Advanced Server Access & Terraform to Automate Identity & Infrastructure as Code](/blog/2020/04/24/okta-terraform-automate-identity-and-infrastructure)

You can find the code for this tutorial on GitHub at <https://github.com/oktadev/okta-k8s-oidc-terraform-example>.

> If you liked this tutorial, chances are you like others we publish. Please follow [@oktadev on Twitter](https://twitter.com/oktadev) and [subscribe to our YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/oktadev) to get notified when we publish new developer tutorials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you liked this tutorial, chances are you'll like others we publish. Please follow [@oktadev on Twitter](https://twitter.com/oktadev) and [subscribe to our YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/oktadev) to get notified when we publish new developer tutorials.
```

---
layout: blog_post
title: "How to Secure Your Kubernetes Cluster with OpenID Connect and RBAC"
author: deepu-sasidharan
by: advocate
communities: [kubernetes, devops, security]
description: "Learn how to set up Okta as an OpenID Connect provider using Terraform for access to Kubernetes API server."
tags: [kubernetes, devops, oidc, okta, terraform]
tweets:
  - "Use #OIDC to access #Kubernetes API server securely. Set it up using Terraform."
  - "Access #Kubernetes API server using your favorite #OIDC provider!"
type: conversion
image: blog/k8s-api-server-oidc/kube-login-oidc.jpg
---

> A Kubernetes (k8s) cluster comprises worker machines called nodes and a control plane consisting of the API server, scheduler, etcd, controller manager, and cloud controller manager — in case of a PaaS. The containers deployed to the cluster will run in pods on the worker nodes. At the same time, the control plane takes care of scheduling, responding to requests, and managing the cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Kubernetes (k8s) cluster comprises worker machines called nodes and a control plane consisting of the API server, scheduler, etcd, controller manager, and in the case of a PaaS the cloud controller manager. The containers deployed to the cluster run in pods on the worker nodes. At the same time, the control plane takes care of scheduling, responding to requests, and managing the cluster.
```

{% img blog/k8s-api-server-oidc/kube-architecture.jpg alt:"K8s architecture" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> When you are communicating with a Kubernetes cluster, let's say using kubectl or a client library or a tool like [KDash](https://kdash.cli.rs/), you are primarily interacting with the [Kubernetes API server](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver/). The API server is responsible for managing the cluster and is responsible for handling requests from a client.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you communicate with a Kubernetes cluster, using kubectl or a client library or a tool like [KDash](https://kdash.cli.rs/), you are primarily interacting with the [Kubernetes API server](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver/). The API server is responsible for managing the cluster and is responsible for handling requests from a client.
```

**Table of Contents**{: .hide }
* Table of Contents
{:toc}

> # Why is it required to secure the API server?

Reviewer 3: This makes me wonder "required by whom?". How about saying "why secure the API server" or "how is the API server secured" instead?

The API server has multiple layers of security. By default, all communication with the API server uses TLS. Authentication is done using service account tokens, bearer tokens, basic authentication, a proxy, or client certificates, depending on the platform. In the case of PaaS like Amazon EKS, AKS, and GKE, it can also be done using custom authentication mechanisms. Once a request is authenticated, the API server can use one of several authorization mechanisms, like Attribute-based access control (ABAC) or Role-based access control (RBAC), to control access to resources. And finally, there are also admission control modules that can be configured to control resource modifications.

> Since the API server is the only part of the Kubernetes cluster that a client can access, it is essential to secure the API server. Unauthorized access of the API server can lead to hijacking of the entire cluster and maybe even your infrastructure, data theft, and so on. Hence, configuring users and roles properly is a must to secure the cluster, especially i9n organizations where more than one user can access the cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since the API server is the only part of the Kubernetes cluster that a client can access, it is essential to secure the API server. Unauthorized access to the API server can lead to hijacking of the entire cluster, which also lets an attacker access all secrets and data accessible to the services running on it. Hence, configuring users and roles properly is a must to secure the cluster, especially i9n organizations where more than one user can access the cluster.
```

Author: thank you. its much clearer then what I wrote :)

{% img blog/k8s-api-server-oidc/kube-login-oidc.jpg alt:"K8s OIDC flow" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Having an OIDC integration also means you can use the same OIDC provider used to do SSO in your existing infrastructure to access your Kubernetes cluster as well, like Okta or Keycloak, for example.

# Use Okta as an OIDC provider to secure the API server

> Okta, Inc. is an identity and access management company providing cloud software that helps companies manage and secure user authentication into applications and for developers to build identity controls into applications, websites, web services, and devices. Okta is a certified OpenID Connect provider.

> Let us see how we can secure the Kubernetes API server using Okta as an OIDC provider and use RBAC to control access right from the Okta Admin Console. If you are using Amazon EKS, then check [this](/blog/2021/10/08/secure-access-to-aws-eks) specific tutorial for using Okta OIDC with EKS.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let us see how we can secure the Kubernetes API server using Okta as an OIDC provider and use RBAC to control access from the Okta Admin Console. If you are using Amazon EKS, then check [this](/blog/2021/10/08/secure-access-to-aws-eks) tutorial for using Okta OIDC with EKS.
```

## What you'll need to get started

Before you start trying this out, make sure you have access to the following.

- An Okta account. You can sign up for a free account [here](https://developer.okta.com/signup/). If you like, you can use another OIDC provider or [Dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex), and the steps should be similar.
- A Kubernetes cluster. I'm using [k3d](https://k3d.io/) to run a local [k3s](https://k3s.io/) cluster. You can use any Kubernetes distribution, including managed PaaS like Amazon EKS, AKS, and GKE, and so on.

> - kubectl installed on your machine.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) installed on your machine.
```

> - Terraform installed on your machine. This is not required if you do the Okta configuration via the [Okta Admin Console](https://login.okta.com/) GUI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli) installed on your machine. This is not required if you do the Okta configuration via the [Okta Admin Console](https://login.okta.com/) GUI.
```

## Set up an Okta OIDC application and authorization server

> You can achieve OIDC login for the cluster by creating a simple OIDC application with Okta either using the Okta CLI or the Admin Console. But with an OIDC application alone, you would have to use the client secret to authenticate from kubectl or any other client library. Which does not scale and is not better than default k8s authentication mechanisms as you won't have granular controls over users and roles. For a more helpful setup, we would need an OIDC application and an authorization server with customized claims and policies for Kubernetes. This way, we can make use of Okta to manage users and permissions as well.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can achieve OIDC login for the cluster by creating a simple OIDC application with Okta either using the Okta CLI or the Admin Console. But with an OIDC application alone, you would have to use the client secret to authenticate from kubectl or any other client library. Authenticating with the client secret does not scale and is not better than default k8s authentication mechanisms, as you won't have granular controls over users and roles. For a more helpful setup, we  need an OIDC application and an authorization server with customized claims and policies for Kubernetes. This way, we can use Okta to manage users and permissions as well.
```

There are multiple ways to set up an OIDC application and authorization server in Okta. If you prefer to do this via a GUI, then follow the **Configure Your Okta Org section** from [this article](/blog/2021/10/08/secure-access-to-aws-eks#configure-your-okta-org) to do it via the Okta Admin Console.

In this tutorial, we will use Terraform to configure the Okta part so that you can reuse the code for any automation required. Let's dive into each step needed.

### Set up Terraform

> If you don't have Terraform installed, follow [these instructions](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli) and set it up.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
moved link to prereqs section, since okta account setup is there too

You can find the complete Terraform source code for this article in this [GitHub repo](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-k8s-oidc-terraform-example)

First, we need to configure the [Okta Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs). Create a new Terraform file, let's say `okta.main.tf`, and add the following:

```hcl
variable "base_url" {
  description = "The Okta base URL. Example: okta.com, oktapreview.com, etc. This is the domain part of your Okta org URL"
}
variable "org_name" {
  description = "The Okta org name. This is the part before the domain in your Okta org URL"
}
variable "api_token" {
  type        = string
  description = "The Okta API token, this will be read from environment variable (TF_VAR_api_token) for security"
  sensitive   = true
}

# Enable and configure the Okta provider
terraform {
  required_providers {
    okta = {
      source  = "okta/okta"
      version = "~> 3.15"
    }
  }
}

provider "okta" {
  org_name  = var.org_name
  base_url  = var.base_url
  api_token = var.api_token
}
```

> You need to provide the input variables `org_name`, `base_url`, and `api_token`. For example, if the address of your Okta instance is `dev-1234.okta.com`, then your `org_name` would be `dev-1234`, and `base_url` would be everything that comes after the org name (e.g., okta.com). Update these values in a file named `okta.config.auto.tfvars`. The `.auto` in the name is important; otherwise, Terraform will not pick it up automatically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You need to provide the input variables `org_name`, `base_url`, and `api_token`. Update these values in a file named `okta.config.auto.tfvars`. The `.auto` in the name is important; otherwise, Terraform will not pick it up automatically. For example, if the address of your Okta instance is `dev-1234.okta.com`, then your `org_name` would be `dev-1234`, and `base_url` would be everything that comes after the org name (e.g., okta.com). 
```

> Next, You will need to generate the `api-token` value. Log in to your Okta administrator console as a superuser and select **Security** > **API** > **Tokens (Tab)** from the navigation menu. Next, click the **Create Token** button, give your token a name, click **Create Token**, and copy the newly generated token. Save this in a separate `.tfvars` file excluded from Git or in an environment variable named `TF_VAR_api_token`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, you will need to generate the `api-token` value. Log in to your Okta administrator console as a superuser and select **Security** > **API** > **Tokens (Tab)** from the navigation menu. Next, click the **Create Token** button, give your token a name, click **Create Token**, and copy the newly generated token. Save this in a separate `.tfvars` file excluded from Git or in an environment variable named `TF_VAR_api_token`.
```

```hcl
# Create an OIDC application

resource "okta_app_oauth" "k8s_oidc" {
  label                      = "k8s OIDC"
  type                       = "native" # this is important
  token_endpoint_auth_method = "none"   # this sets the client authentication to PKCE
  grant_types = [
    "authorization_code"
  ]
  response_types = ["code"]
  redirect_uris = [
    "http://localhost:8000",
  ]
  post_logout_redirect_uris = [
    "http://localhost:8000",
  ]
  lifecycle {
    ignore_changes = [groups]
  }
}

# Assign groups to the OIDC application
resource "okta_app_group_assignments" "k8s_oidc_group" {
  app_id = okta_app_oauth.k8s_oidc.id
  group {
    id = okta_group.k8s_admin.id
  }
  group {
    id = okta_group.k8s_restricted_users.id
  }
}

output "k8s_oidc_client_id" {
  value = okta_app_oauth.k8s_oidc.client_id
}
```

### Create an authorization server

> Next, we would need an authorization server so that we can define policies and claims. We can also capture the issuer URL in an output variable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, we need an authorization server so that we can define policies and claims. We will also capture the issuer URL in an output variable.
```

}
```

### Add policy and rule to the authorization server

Now we need to create policies and rules for the authorization server. The below policy defines which OIDC applications it will be assigned to. Then we create a rule for the policy that will define the PKCE tokens lifetime and refresh interval. For this, we are leaving the values at default, which is 1 hour lifetime and unlimited refresh interval, but you can change them as per your needs.

```hcl
# Add policy and rules to the authorization server

resource "okta_auth_server_policy" "auth_policy" {
  name             = "k8s_policy"
  auth_server_id   = okta_auth_server.oidc_auth_server.id
  description      = "Policy for allowed clients"
  priority         = 1
  client_whitelist = [okta_app_oauth.k8s_oidc.id]
}

resource "okta_auth_server_policy_rule" "auth_policy_rule" {
  name           = "AuthCode + PKCE"
  auth_server_id = okta_auth_server.oidc_auth_server.id
  policy_id      = okta_auth_server_policy.auth_policy.id
  priority       = 1
  grant_type_whitelist = [
    "authorization_code"
  ]
  scope_whitelist = ["*"]
  group_whitelist = ["EVERYONE"]
}
```

### Create the Okta configurations using Terraform

> Now that the Terraform code is ready let's apply this. First, run `terraform plan` to see the changes that will be made. Then run `terraform apply` and type `yes` to apply the changes. You should see an output similar to this. You can also log in to the Okta Admin Console to verify the changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that the Terraform code is ready, let's apply it. First, run `terraform plan` to see the changes that will be made. Verify that the changes proposed by the `plan` make the changes you wanted, on the resources that you intended to modify. Then run `terraform apply` and type `yes` to apply the changes. You should see an output similar to this. You can also log in to the Okta Admin Console to verify the changes.
```

no point planning if you don't read it =)

Apply complete! Resources: 10 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

k8s_oidc_client_id = "0oa2b0qc0x38Xjxbk5d7"
k8s_oidc_issuer_url = "https://dev-xxxxxx.okta.com/oauth2/aus2b0ql0ihgilIh95d7"
```

You can run `terraform destroy` to revert the changes if required.

> **TIP**: You can use the `terraform import <resource_name.id>` command to import data and configuration from your Okta instance. Refer [these docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs) for more information.

## Preparing the cluster

Now we need to prepare the cluster to work with OIDC. For this, we need to update the API server flags below:

- `oidc-issuer-url`: This will be your issuer URL from the Okta authorization server
- `oidc-client-id`: This is the client ID from the Okta OIDC application
- `oidc-username-claim`: This is the claim that will be used to identify the user. In this case, it is `email`.
- `oidc-groups-claim`: This is the claim that will be used to identify the groups. In this case, it is `groups`.
- `oidc-ca-file`: This is the CA file that is used to validate the OIDC server. If you are using Okta as an OIDC provider, then you don't need to set this.

> **NOTE**: If you encounter an issue where OIDC groups/users collide with Kubernetes groups/users, you can set `oidc-groups-prefix` and `oidc-username-prefix` flags as well.

Reviewer 3: :+1:

> Flags can be set when creating the cluster or by patching the API server via SSH.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Flags can be set when creating the cluster or by patching the API server via SSH, as described below.
```
i got super distracted by "what does patching it even mean" and went to look it up and should have just kept reading :)

### Create a cluster with OIDC enabled

> Here is how you can create a new k8s cluster with OIDC enabled using different tools. Execute the command for the tool of preference. Make sure to replace `<k8s_oidc_issuer_url>` and `<k8s_oidc_client_id>` with values from the output of the Terraform step. For any other tools, refer to their documentation on how to update API server flags.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here is how you can create a new k8s cluster with OIDC enabled using different tools. Execute the command for the tool you're using. Make sure to replace `<k8s_oidc_issuer_url>` and `<k8s_oidc_client_id>` with values from the output of the Terraform step. For any other tools, refer to their documentation on how to update API server flags.
```

You can use the below command to set this user as default for your current kubectl context.

```
kubectl config set-context --current --user=oidc-user
```

# Learn more about using OIDC with Kubernetes

Using OIDC is a great way to secure your Kubernetes clusters, especially in bigger teams. It is more secure than any of the default Kubernetes authentication mechanisms. On top of that, it will let you manage users and their roles and permissions in your cluster and even add multi-factor authentication for your cluster.

While this exercise shows how to do it with Okta, the process would be very similar for other OIDC providers as well. Check out the [Okta Terraform provider docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs) to see what else can be automated via Terraform. You can also automate the Kubernetes parts via terraform using the [Kubernetes Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/kubernetes/latest/docs).

> If you want to learn more about Kubernetes, OIDC, or using OIDC with Kubernetes, feel free to follow the links below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to learn more about Kubernetes, OIDC, or using OIDC with Kubernetes, check out these additional resources.
```

- [OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect Overview](https://developer.okta.com/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/)
- [Secure Access to AWS EKS Clusters for Admins](/blog/2021/10/08/secure-access-to-aws-eks)
- [Build a Microservice Architecture with Spring Boot and Kubernetes](/blog/2019/04/01/spring-boot-microservices-with-kubernetes)
- [Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster)
- [Using Okta Advanced Server Access & Terraform to Automate Identity & Infrastructure as Code](/blog/2020/04/24/okta-terraform-automate-identity-and-infrastructure)

You can find the code for this tutorial on GitHub at <https://github.com/oktadev/okta-k8s-oidc-terraform-example>.

> If you liked this tutorial, chances are you like others we publish. Please follow [@oktadev on Twitter](https://twitter.com/oktadev) and [subscribe to our YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/oktadev) to get notified when we publish new developer tutorials.

Reviewer 3: :+1:
